Software Engineer, Backend

New York, NYAbout the job
About Mistral

Mistral provides full-stack AI solutions: from frontier models to developer tools, applications, and compute. We partner with enterprises tackling the hardest problems across high-stakes industries like finance, manufacturing, defense, healthcare, and the public sector, co-creating customized AI systems that they can run on their terms.

We are a dynamic, collaborative team passionate about AI and its potential to transform society. Our diverse workforce thrives in competitive environments and is committed to driving innovation. Our teams are distributed between Europe, North America, Asia and the Middle East. We are creative, low-ego and team-spirited.

The Role

We are seeking passionate and skilled software engineers to join our new team in NYC. As a Backend Engineer, you’ll contribute to the development of the core systems powering our three main products, AI Studio, Le Chat & Mistral Code, shaping how users and developers interact with our AI platform at scale. You’ll work on building reliable, high-performance backend systems and APIs that serve millions of users and developers. Your work will directly impact the developer and user experience, making it more engaging, efficient, and intuitive. We welcome engineers from mid-level to senior and staff engineers who are eager to learn, collaborate and ship impactful products.

What You Will Do

Depending on your skills and field of expertise, you will be involved in key components of our technology, including:

Backend Development

 Design, develop and maintain scalable, robust backend features and APIs using modern frameworks. 
 Ensure high performance and reliability across our distributed systems. 
 Contribute to systems powering inference, billing, AI tooling, observability, and developer experience. 

System Architecture

 Design and implement efficient, secure and scalable architectures that support our fast-growing products. 
 Collaborate with infrastructure teams on deployment, monitoring, and performance optimization. 

Code Quality

 Write clean, maintainable and well-documented code. 
 Participate in code reviews and contribute to technical standards and best practices. 

Cross-functional Collaboration

 Collaborate with product managers, platform engineers, and AI/ML teams to design, build, and deliver scalable model-as-a-service solutions for developers and enterprise users. 
 Partner with teams across AI Studio, Le Chat & Mistral Code to ensure consistent platform-wide experience. 

Problem-Solving & Innovation

 Tackle complex engineering challenges, from distributed systems to AI product integration. 
 Stay up-to-date with new technologies (e.g., AI/LLM integration, observability, or backend frameworks) and bring them into production when relevant. 

What We're Looking For

 Degree in Computer Science, Software Engineering, or equivalent practical experience. 
 Proficiency in Python or another backend language (Golang, Kotlin, C#). Engineers are assessed in their preferred language during a live coding session. 
 Strong understanding of backend fundamentals: APIs, databases, caching, messaging systems and distributed architectures. 
 Strong problem-solving abilities and attention to detail. 
 Ownership mindset capable of shipping end-to-end features with minimal oversight. 
 Excellent communication skills and collaborative attitude. 
 Team-oriented, low-ego mindset and curiosity for learning. 

Now, it would be ideal if you had experience with:

 Full-stack exposure
 Working closely with an API & developer ecosystem
 Deploying software to a diverse set of environments (cloud, on-premises, etc.)
 Infrastructure management (Docker, CI/CD, Kubernetes, Helm, Terraform...)
 AI/ML engineering
 Observability and monitoring tools (Prometheus, Grafana, Datadog…). 
 UX and product-centric mindset. 

Hiring Process

 Introduction call - 30 min
 Live-coding interview - 45 min
 System Design interview - 45 min
 Hiring Manager interview - 30 min
 Deep Dive Interview (only for leads & staff engineers) - 60 min
 Culture-fit discussion - 30 min
 Reference checks

What we offer

We offer a comprehensive benefits package designed to support your well-being, growth, and work-life balance. Benefits vary by country and may include healthcare coverage, parental leave, retirement plans, relocation support, wellness programs, meal and transportation allowances, and other location-specific perks.

For the most up-to-date details on benefits available in your location, please refer to our Benefits page.

Privacy Policy

Your privacy matters to us. You can learn more about how we handle your personal data in our Applicant Privacy Policy.